---
redirect_from: "/2012/07/13/teracopy/"
layout: post
title: Teracopy
date: 2012-07-13 23:50
author: terrehbyte
comments: true
categories: [computers, power users, programs, software, software, teracopy, Windows]
---

For a while, I've been using CodeSector's
[Teracopy](http://codesector.com/teracopy) to handle day to day file operations
in place of Windows. It's widely acclaimed to speed up file operations by
optimizing buffer caches or something like that, but I'm fairly certain that
mileage will very from person to person. Nonetheless, I find Teracopy to be very
useful and recommend it to power users. It can also be installed for less than
computer-inclined users who want something powerful yet easily usable, provided
they don't start messing with some of the deeper functions.  

Teracopy can be installed to replace or work on an on-call basis as the file
operations handler in Windows. It does everything that Windows Explorer does and
more. After a copy operation has completed, Teracopy can perform a CRC or cyclic
redundancy check that verifies that the original file and the new file are one
and the same. Teracopy also provides the user with the option to delete the
original set of files after a copy has finished as well as offering to retry
copying files that failed to copy over or failed the check.  

[Teracopy](http://codesector.com/teracopy) is available for free of charge at
Code Sector's website, though a PRO version with a few extra features. I would
like to note that the free version has no nag screen or anything like that with
the small exception of a small text link stating, "Get Pro version" on the file
operation dialog window.

EDIT: Haha, I was making copies of some documents I had running when my HDD
seized up because my PSU isn't exactly strong enough to run everything I have
plugged into it. Anyway, an incomplete version of the file I was copying was
left over, and Teracopy detected this. I was promptly asked if I wanted to
delete the incomplete file and only that file, with the remainder of the file
operation queue intact and ready to go after this minor inconvenience had been
resolved. I told it to get rid of the incomplete file and here I am, continuing
rather happily with my backups.
