---
redirect_from: "/2013/08/25/to-terry-in-two-years/"
layout: post
title: To Terry in Two Years
date: 2013-08-25 19:00
author: terrehbyte
comments: true
categories: [believe, college, doubt, personal, reflection, time, work]
excerpt: "If you are reading this, then it can only mean one of two things: either you're Terry in two years or you're not Terry and you're reading this for some reason. Either is fine with this Terry, at the very least."
published: false
---
To Myself:  

If you are reading this, then it can only mean one of two things: this is either
the original copy of the letter that initially appeared on August 25, 2013 or
the one that has been scheduled to appear on August 25, 2015. Should the latter
come true, then hopefully you have maintained this blog and keeping it full of
your ramblings about class at the Academy of Interactive Entertainment or
wherever you have decided to take up your studies. I suppose it is time that I
get down to business though. Why don't we start with a few questions?  


First of all, how are you? Are you well? Have you been eating breakfast every
day? You've never been one to really eat or drink until you're starving or dying
of thirst, so hopefully you've improved. It's fine that you enjoying doing what
you do, but don't forget to maintain the body that lets you do those things,
alright?  

Now, don't be offended if I ask you this, but are you even a programmer? If you
aren't, then why not? What made you deviate from the career that you've had your
heart set on taking on? If you are still a programmer, then what do you think?
Is it everything that you had hoped it was? Are you getting ready to set out and
not just *any* 'Nguyen', but 'Terry Nguyen', known as a great and competent
programmer and team player? Maybe a better question would be: do you still have
the same demand for excellence and righteousness in whatever you do as you did
when of writing for this post?  

I know that I'm asking a lot from you, but I've always asked that of myself, so
give it some thought.  

Now then, even if you're in despair, distress, or even on cloud nine, hear me
out for a second: you can do this. Never think that you are incapable of doing
anything. Yes, ideals are nothing more than imaginary thoughts of perfection and
excellence, but it is the people who work towards those ideals that achieve
greatness. If you don't think you can do it, then how will you ever be able to
do it? Life is too short to spend waiting on someone to push you along to get
something done. You know you can do this. It has simply always been a matter of
whether you're forced to do it or not. You can't create something great if you
don't start.  

Start doing whatever it is that you like doing and keep at it. You will learn
things about it that you never would have had you never even started. Learn from
your mistakes and continue to improve at what you do, and surely, someday you
will succeed. You don't have to take the hard road along either. The Internet
that helped you learn all of your vocabulary and grammar at a young age will
also be there as a resource that helps you learn from the mistakes and
discoveries that other people who, like you, also learned from their mistakes.
Call it a bit of pessimism, but I'm sure that we won't have researched enough
technology to retire the Internet in two year's time.  

You always keep your heart to yourself, so it's hard to have someone else weigh
in, but if there's one thing I know about you, it's that you always doubt your
abilities. Now's the time to stop doubting and to start believing in your
abilities and to show the world that you too can create some amazing things.  

Take Care,  

Terry Nguyen  

P.S. [Someone](http://terrehbyte.files.wordpress.com/2013/08/fail-faster.gif)
said that you should write something to yourself in 14 years' time, but you've
surely made something much more incredible that will replace this blog by then,
right?

P.S.S. You cheated and rebuilt your blog so you reread it anyway!  

P.S.S.S. That *someone* doesn't want their face on the Internet anyway! Take it
down now! ;)