---
layout: post
title: AIE's Minor Production Process
tagline: "How can we best provide an opportunity students to test all the skills they've accumulated thus far in a cross-discipline production project?"
date: 2019-09-18 00:00
author: terrehbyte
comments: true

bigimage: "/images/posts/minorProductionHero.jpg"
categories: [gamedev, aie, production, academia]
---

_This was edited by [Lizz Rizzo (@lizz0id)][lizz] and published for the
[Academy of Interactive Entertainment][aie] on its website_.

[lizz]:https://twitter.com/lizz0id
[aie]:https://aie.edu/aie-minor-production-process/

One of the most valuable parts of the course for our Game Development students
is the opportunity to collaborate with their peers from other disciplines for
their final project at the end of each school year.

Internally, those projects are referred to as "[Minor Production](https://aie.edu/what-is-minor-production/)"
and "Major Production" respectively for our first year and second year game
students. Every year, students fall prey to the same problems: communication
issues, gaps in technical skill, unclear direction from faculty, or just
interpersonal conflicts in general. This year's changes continue the trend of
improving the process, which in turn creates a stronger student experience.

## Adopting Scrum for the Students

Our efforts to introduce Scrum to students to posture healthy team habits have
been successful in past Minor Production projects, which simulates a studio
environment. Teams naturally find the transition to be rough at first, but many
later report feeling comfortable with the process by the second or third sprint.

We treat attendance as if the students were working full-time in a studio
environment. Honoring the daily stand-up was difficult for students that had
trouble getting to class on-time. Efforts from students to flex the schedule or
conduct multiple scrums to mitigate issues were effectively trading attendance
issues for communication or productivity issues. Any further issues are
escalated to be monitored under administration.

Faculty designates specific blocks of time to allow for Sprint Planning and
Sprint Retrospective sessions. While students are always eager to criticize
their work, teams were much more adept at identifying and resolving issues this
time around. Rather than focusing on the problems with the product alone, teams
were able to also address issues with their process. Pipeline problems like
scale issues were non-existent in later cycles.

In addition to the above rituals, we ask each team to present recent
developments to the class as a whole. Public presentations not only reinforced
the idea that their work should continue to create value for the player, but
also provided faculty with an opportunity to review each team's work in a single
sitting. If there were any issues with a team's priorities or progress, it would
become immediately visible to all faculty members. This improved our response
time and efficacy in resolving issues on teams.

To facilitate project management, we use Hack n' Plan, a user-friendly service
that models some common Scrum concepts like backlogs and user stories. Its
categorized Kanban boards allowed students to track task progress by discipline
to minimize clutter.

## Switching to Perforce

A major software change for this year was the transition away from Git as our
preferred version control solution to Perforce in response to industry feedback.
From the student perspective, Perforce allowed them the ability to lock down
files to prevent others from making changes while they're working on it.

Merging two sets of changes to code is doable, but reconcile concurrent changes
to art assets often resulted in lost work. Removing the need to merge allowed us
to eliminate a way for students to lose their work. Unfortunately, students
still lost work from improper use of Perforce, as was the case with Git.

A side-benefit of adopting Perforce was the reduced difficulty in training
artists to work in-engine to improve their iteration time. Programmers were able
to focus on bug-fixes and feature development rather than integrating art assets
(at least, to a lesser degree). This also meant that artists could get more
immediate feedback on their work rather than being blocked by busy programmers.
In both cases, this led to better iteration times which allowed for more refined
work from all departments.

## Publishing for itch.io

![A screenshot of Shakti Unlimited's itch.io page, featuring controls and copytext](/images/posts/itchShakti.png)

Minor Production had always been conducted strictly internally, which left
students unprepared for when Major Production rolls around due to its inclusion
of a public showcase. To address this, each team had to publish on itch.io in
order to better inform the process of creating a public brand for the game.

This was a double-win for us: students were able to publicly showcase their work
online while also giving them an task with a very measurable outcome. Work on
the page itself naturally led to questions about branding and messaging: how
would a team describe its product to the public? It also promoted discussions
around creating instructions for on-boarding players into the game, which often
gets forgotten in the midst of the development.

All of the Minor Production projects are publicly viewable on our [itch.io
profile page](https://aieseattle.itch.io/).

## Introducting the Game Design and Production Department

Every AIE campus struggled with the integration of the Game Design and
Production (GD&P) department, which is a new venture comparted to its Game
Programming and Game Art counterparts. In our case, GD&P students found
difficulty with finding parts of the production process to take ownership of.

Documentation of design work on the game clearly fell on GD&P in the form of
Word documents and project management tools. Some found themselves largely
monitoring Hack n' Plan while others felt trapped under paperwork for weeks on
end.

The confusion only worsened with expectations around GD&P's direct contributions
to the game itself. How programmers and artists should expect to collaborate
with their designers was unclear, which led to numerous cases of
miscommunication. Teams were left with levels they weren't sure how to build or
game loops that needed more playtesting and refinement.

Conflicting messaging also occurred internally around the responsibilities of
the GD&P department leading to confusion even within faculty members, which then
cascaded down to the students. We hope to better form next year's curriculum
around a more well-defined set of expectations will benefit everyone.

## Plans for Next Year

As we plan for next year's production projects, the ultimate goal still rings
clear: we must be training students on the skills that will help them most with
navigating the challenges they'll face in the workplace.

Making them effective at their craft is not enough by itself when students
expect to work in an industry that needs collaboration from so many different
fields and specialties. The production projects are a primary way for us to
train and evaluate students on their job readiness.

Areas for major improvement for us include:

- Better modeling the different roles that exist on game development teams
- Training students on the framework of Scrum and AIE Seattle's implementation
- Addressing common pipeline issues ahead of the production projects with prior lessons

We poured a lot of effort into formalizing many of the "Scrum" or "pipeline" or
any myriad of broad expectations that we had placed on the students in prior
years. Now with the groundwork laid out, we can focus on how we can prepare and
communicate with students during for future production processes.
