---
author: terrehbyte
categories:
- blogging
- commentary
- graphic design
- meta
- software
comments: true
date: "2013-11-11T00:00:00Z"
redirect_from: /2013/11/11/my-programming-blog-is-full-of-lessons-as-i-expected/
title: My Programming Blog Is Full of Lessons as I Expected
---

After starting to commit to a more regular tweeting, blogging, and status
updating life, I'm finding out more and more as to why I left behind the whole
"Minecraft tutorial" life. Making things that I feel look clear and very easy to
follow seems to take absolutely forever for me! I always hated watching YouTube
videos where I couldn't tell what was going or articles that couldn't clearly
direct a lowly newbie towards successfully completely whatever task I wanted to
get done. I didn't want to make the same problems either, but in trying to do
so, I ran into so many issues! Here's one of them; it's fairly recent too.

Working with Value
------------------

I'm not a graphic designer, but it doesn't take one to see what's wrong here.
When I tried to revise my article about taking full page screenshots in Firefox,
I noticed that I may have made a grave mistake.  

![Can you spot the problem in my layout?]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/contrastA.png)

My super cool captures of my blog taken while I demonstrate the aforementioned
functionality in Firefox are so clear, that it could be mistaken as a broken
webpage rendering or confusing the most technologically illiterate but learning
netizen. Thankfully, I only tore a few hairs out when attempting to come to
terms with capturing desktop movement for the third time when I realized that I
might have an easy fix on my hands!  

![Black borders!]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/contrastA.png)

Black borders! However, it took a good 15 minutes for me to find a nice border
width. It doesn't help that I kept refreshing an old preview of it too, so there
goes even more time down the drain. Oh well. I learned how to use
[LICEcap](http://www.cockos.com/licecap/) though, some nice software I picked up
a while back.  