---
author: terrehbyte
categories:
- devblog
- development
- journal
- personal
- software
- visual novel
- work
- worklog
comments: true
date: "2012-11-21T00:00:00Z"
redirect_from: /2012/11/21/write-a-visual-novel-day-1-why/
title: 'Write a Visual Novel - Day 1: Why?'
---

Keeping in mind that this isn't actually the first day that I've worked on the
visual novel, I think it's best if I bring everyone up to speed. The point of
trying this self-designed programming exercise is to ease me into programming
and learn something in my spare time. I have always wanted to design and build
programs, but because of the fact that I get easily discouraged by a lack of
results meant that I've never been able to do so. By gradually building up my
knowledge, I will be better prepared in the future to take on programming
classes and assignments as well as having fun in the process by designing a
visual novel.  

In addition to this, I want to touch on something. One thing that's resounded
very well in my head is the notion that if you don't look for friends, you won't
find any. If the player chooses to isolate themselves from the rest, the that's
the kind of life that they'll lead. It won't be a very large segment, but it'll
last a bit.  

In addition to that, this project interests me and is one way for me to get into
the habit of committing to something over a long-term basis. In most cases, the
enthusiasm that accompanies projects like this wears thin early on, so the
project is dropped. I don't want that to happen to this project if I can help
it. If this truly is not my passion, then so be it, it isn't, I'm not going to
kill myself over it. But if this project really is my passion, I'll work at it.

It's hard for people to start something, but it's easy to join in. I don't
actually plan on finishing this entire thing by myself: it really is a lot of
hard work, but someone has to be the person that keeps it alive. I've never
tried to be that person before, but there's always a first time for everything:
why not be adventurous?  

Keeping in mind that this isn't actually the first day that I've worked on the
visual novel, I think it's best if I bring everyone up to speed. The point of
trying this self-designed programming exercise is to ease me into programming
and learn something in my spare time. I have always wanted to design and build
programs, but because of the fact that I get easily discouraged by a lack of
results meant that I've never been able to do so. By gradually building up my
knowledge, I will be better prepared in the future to take on programming
classes and assignments as well as having fun in the process by designing a
visual novel.  

In addition to this, I want to touch on something. One thing that's resounded
very well in my head is the notion that if you don't look for friends, you won't
find any. If the player chooses to isolate themselves from the rest, the that's
the kind of life that they'll lead. It won't be a very large segment, but it'll
last a bit.  

In addition to that, this project interests me and is one way for me to get into
the habit of committing to something over a long-term basis. In most cases, the
enthusiasm that accompanies projects like this wears thin early on, so the
project is dropped. I don't want that to happen to this project if I can help
it. If this truly is not my passion, then so be it, it isn't, I'm not going to
kill myself over it. But if this project really is my passion, I'll work at it.

It's hard for people to start something, but it's easy to join in. I don't
actually plan on finishing this entire thing by myself: it really is a lot of
hard work, but someone has to be the person that keeps it alive. I've never
tried to be that person before, but there's always a first time for everything:
why not be adventurous?  
